
## What is Agile?

It really depends on who you're talking to.

If you're talking to a business analyst or an IT person or a development manager or a company executive, you will all get different answers.

And there are a lot of answers out there where it's a little bit confusing
on what really Agile means.

Personally, to me, Agile is a philosophy and a way of thinking that's guided by four values and 12 principles, the [Agile Manifesto](https://agilemanifesto.org).

## The benefits of using *Agile*

Agile was created because of the pitfalls and downfalls of a traditional waterfall methodology.

You see with Waterfall there's various phases and you can't move to the next phase until that previous phase is complete.

And once you've moved past a phase it's very difficult to go back to a previous phase.

So for Waterfall you need to identify all the requirements up front.
Then you need to model and analyze all those requirements.
Then you need to develop some type of solution that meets those requirements.
Then you go through the testing and move to production phases.

But if you're already in the development or testing and you identify some changes, to go back it takes a lot of work for that team to go back to requirements and push that as a separate piece
through that waterfall process.

As well, because of having to do those things step by step by step, the value isn't delivered to the end user and to the customer until the end of the process.

And so it causes a lot of problem. As well, with Waterfall, it's a much longer period to deliver any type of value or gain any feedback from the users or the customer that have ultimately asked for this solution.

Because you have to gather all the requirements, go through design, development and testing, that is months, sometimes years to actually receive some type of solution that may or may not meet that business need.

> 
> Agile was created to help solve those problems. 

The number one thing that Agile does is it allows you to deliver that value
in smaller increments to the customer.

Not only does the customer that end user get to start utilizing that solution and seeing that value, but, also, they get to give you feedback.

They really like it or they don't really like it, or this should be adjusted or the business has changed and now be, we said this, but it needs to really be this now. *Agile allows you to do that*.

You deliver that little bit of value, you gain that critical feedback that will change and adjust the way you move forward on your project and it really helps to solve a lot of those problems before they become big problems.

And because Agile's more of an iterative process,the team, the project team, is actually able to get feedback on their performance as well.

The project team can understand what they could do differently
and what they could adjust to make them even more successful
and make their solution even more successful.

[[002. The manifesto four values]]