
### 1. We are uncovering better ways for developing software by doing it ourselves and helping others.

### 2. Through this work, we have come to value individuals and interactions over processes and tools, working software over comprehensive documentation.

### 3. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation.

The key thing that you wanna keep in mind in this value is **customer collaboration**.

We wanna collaborate with our customer because we wanna delight our customer, because we want them to come back to us and rely in our expertise for developing software.

However, we wanna change the way that we write our contracts
or agreements.

In the past, most of the times, most of these contracts are written based on business requirements or functional requirement documents, which throughout the course of the project, it is so hard to predict.
And usually these requirements change and there goes the contract where now as a development team, we have to kind of go based on the contract
and the client will actually have us execute on the contract,
which it's a **lose-lose** situation.

Versus what we are suggesting is have a contract
in a way where we are keeping customers success in our mind.
It's actually not fair for development teams to ask for all the requirements
from the customer or the client in day one.

> NOTE
> 
> They're coming to you in the first place for help because they want this piece of software to be built by you.

So rather than putting them into a strong contract, we want to collaborate with them and help them understand what they need in the software
so that they can really delight their customer.

> SUMMARY
> 
> So this principle is saying that instead of having a strict contract up front, collaboration is the key, work with the customer or the client throughout the project and you want to create a win-win situation where if your customer or your client wins, then you win.
### 4. Responding to change over following a plan.

The last value of the Manifesto is responding to change over following a plan.

This value just means that having a plan is very important. It's almost silly not to have a plan.

In software development, we have all kind of plannings, however less value on being ready and being able to respond with the changes if they actually happen.

> NOTE:
> 
  "Everybody has a plan until they get punched on their face." - Mike Tyson

[[003. The 12 Agile Principles]]
