
## 1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.

### 2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development.

### 3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.

### 4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.

### 5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need. And trust them to get the job done.

There's no project manager trying to ask you, - "you know, what did you do yesterday?".

Or like, - "how much have you done?". Like no status reports.

The idea here is, hire a really good motivated group of individuals, part of the team who are cross-functional and actually give them space to actually do amazing work.

And when we say work, not just develop software but also to solve problems for the company or the client.

If you're going to work in an Agile team, is regardless of your title,these teams are cross-functional. That means they cross over roles. Your duties and responsibilities are going to evolve and change. And that is because everybody's collaborating together to try to realize that end value.

### 6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.

### 7. **Working software** is the primary measure of progress.

Not how much analysis we've done or how many pages of documentation we have created or how many mock-up pages we've created.

This is purely working software.

### 8. Agile processes promote sustainable development.

The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.

### 9. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.

### 10. Simplicity, the art of maximizing the amount  of work not done is essential.

So the idea here is in Agile you're also thinking about the outcome.
Like, what kind of outcome are you looking?

And you can do that by building less and less and delivering more.

### 11. The best architectures, requirements and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.

### 12. Reflect and adjust

At regular intervals the team reflects on how to
become more effective. Than tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.
