
## Introduction

***Scrum*** is a framework to *deliver*, *develop* and *sustain* complex products.

It's built on the foundations of agile, of iterating and adapting to change, as well it follows the philosophy of empiricism, which is learning through experimentation and making decisions based on what is known.

Scrum provides a blueprint or a pattern that can be followed to deliver solutions that satisfy the customer needs.

It does this by dictating roles, events, and artifacts as well as rules and best practices to help tie everything together.

We're gonna get into more specifics in later lectures, but first, we need to understand
the three pillars of Scrum

## Transparency

Transparency means:

- The process must be visible, and the language used must be common and understandable to those responsible for the outcome.
- Everyone needs to have a shared understanding of what's going on.
- Facts are presented as is **without a hidden agenda**.

Information and news, both good and bad, are shared openly and freely.

This transparency encourages a level of trust, enabling everyone to strive towards that common objective.

## Inspection

Inspection is how we measure that advancement towards the goal and identify any issues or deviations that are not desirable or would inhibit us from reaching that goal.

## Adaption

Then we use adaption to, as soon as possible, adjust our processes, solutions, and decisions based on the new or updated information.

Here, we're avoiding or correcting the issues we identified during our initial inspection.

## Summary 📑

- **Transparency:** so everyone has a common understanding of what's happening
- **Inspection:** to validate we're on target towards our goal
- **Adaption:** to tweak and adjust based on learnings.