
This setup is a Mini PC with a `Manjaro` Linux distribution for the `x86-64` architecture.

This time, I choose to install a `GUI` alongside with the *OS*, so I choose the `xfce` variant, being lightweight and powerful. Since I won't be using it too much, it w'd be enought.

> NOTE:
> Is it possible that I choose to install `Manjaro Server` completely without *GUI* support. That will depend on my mood literally. So see instructions below to connect to a wi-fi from *cli*

## First steps

### Installing the OS

- After flashing the `Manjaro` ISO in a USB stick, press *F2*, *F10* or *supr* to enter the **BIOS**.
- Change the boot order to use the USB first
- Use the Manjaro installer to overwrite that piece of shit of `Windows` and install ***MANJARO***
	- *Language*: American US
	- Region: Europe/Madrid
	- Keyboard Layout: Spanish (dead tilde)
- Add *16GB* of **SWAP** memory to the installation (with Hibernation)
- Add a *WAN* connection, so it's usable. You can just plug an *RJ45* and wire it via *LAN*.
- Reboot and profit! Remove the USB stick, you moron! :)

> NOTE:
> 
> From here, we will be assuming that you successfully created a new user that belongs to the `sudo` group (should it be by default), and that you have at least one networking interface connected to your local network.

### Connect to wifi via CLI

In case that I choose to install **Manjaro Server**, no *GUI* tool will be available. If no *LAN* connection is available, or I am felling to lazy to go to the router and wire a cable, we'll need to connect to *Wi-Fi* via *CLI*.

*Manjaro* comes with *NetworkManager* installed by default, which brings some utils as binariesm like `nmcli`. This is the tool that we'll be using.

#### List nearby Wi-Fi connections

```bash
[vv@vv-minipc ~]$ nmcli device wifi list
IN-USE  BSSID              SSID                        MODE   CHAN  RATE        SIGNAL  BARS  SECURITY
        80:AF:CA:62:BA:D4  EL REGUETON ES DE PRINGAOS  Infra  4     270 Mbit/s  100     ▂▄▆█  WPA1 WPA2
        82:AF:CA:42:BA:D4  --                          Infra  40    270 Mbit/s  92      ▂▄▆█  WPA3
        82:AF:CA:52:BA:D4  --                          Infra  40    270 Mbit/s  89      ▂▄▆█  WPA2
*       82:AF:CA:32:BA:D4  EL REGUETON ES DE PRINGAOS  Infra  40    270 Mbit/s  76      ▂▄▆_  WPA1 WPA2
        62:45:B8:A8:65:C7  --                          Infra  153   0 Mbit/s    54      ▂▄__  WEP
```

Now, choose your desired connection, and type:

```bash
nmcli device wifi connect <_SSID_or_BSSID_> password <_password_>
```

Just in case, [here's the Arch wiki](nmcli device wifi connect <_SSID_or_BSSID_> password <_password_>) with all the doc's up to date explaining how to connect to *Wi-FI*.

### Upgrading system packages

Self-explainatory. Mandatory. Just do it.

```bash
sudo pacman -Syu --noconfirm
```
### Enabling SSH

Most of the management of this `servers` w'd be done through the `SSH` protocol.
By default, the `sshd` daemon isn't running on a clean installation, so we should open a terminal and enable it

```bash
sudo systemctl enable --now sshd
```

This will allows us to unplug any peripherical device connected, and just manage our server from a terminal on another station remotely.

### Getting your current IP

There's a chance that I forgot or I just didn't wanted to enter the router to assign an *IP* to the device. I do it always, but maybe not at this point. So we need a direction to connect to from other machine.

```bash
ip a
```

This will list your network interfaces. Look for the one that you're currently connected to the local network, and store or remember that provisional *IP*.

### Connecting to the server via SSH

Pick another machine and open a terminal.

```bash
ssh <your-user>@<server-ip>
```

Now you'll see the prompt of the *SSH* login connection. Accept anything that the prompt ask you for. And ***voilá***, you're logged into the *server* from another machine, avoiding to have the server with an *HDMI* port connected to other screen or maybe the television or whatever. You can now safely configure and manage your server.