What is Seafile?

Seafile is a file syncing and sharing platform that allows users to store and access files in the cloud. Unlike traditional cloud storage services, Seafile is open-source, meaning that the source code is freely available for anyone to view, modify, and distribute. This transparency allows users to verify the security of the platform and customize it to meet their specific needs.

Seafile offers a range of features that make it an attractive alternative to commercial cloud storage services. These include:

End-to-end encryption: Seafile uses end-to-end encryption to ensure that files are securely transmitted and stored. This means that only the sender and recipient of a file can access its contents, making it virtually impossible for unauthorized users to intercept or view the data.

Version control: Seafile allows users to track changes to files over time, enabling them to revert to previous versions if necessary. This feature is particularly useful for collaborative projects where multiple users are working on the same document.

File synchronization: Seafile automatically syncs files across devices, ensuring that users have access to the most up-to-date versions of their files at all times. This eliminates the need to manually transfer files between devices and reduces the risk of data loss.

File sharing: Seafile allows users to share files with others via links or shared folders. Users can control who has access to their files and can set permissions for viewing, editing, and downloading.

Cross-platform compatibility: Seafile is compatible with a wide range of operating systems, including Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android. This allows users to access their files from any device, regardless of the platform.
### Side notes

Very important!

The cert mounted path on docker has a hardcoded seafile version. This must be changed everytime that the seafile container downloads a new image/version

For now there's no automated solution

### Error with the certs

Only use them if you receive an error like:

```
[ERROR] seahub.oauth.views:168 oauth_callback HTTPSConnectionPool(host='auth.home.lab', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: /api/oidc/token (Caused by SSLError(SSLCertVerificationError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate verify failed: self-signed certificate (_ssl.c:1000)')))
```

Supposed solution:

```bash
docker exec -it seafile cp /opt/seafile/seafile-server-12.0.11/seahub/thirdpart/certifi/cacert.pem /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/home.lab.crt # Maybe not required

docker exec -it seafile update-ca-certificates

```